Adding Usage Scenarios (#25)
ietf-scitt/draft-birkholz-cose-tsa-tst-header-parameter: draft-birkholz-cose-tsa-tst-header-parameter.md

A first use case is a digital document signed alongside a trustworthy timestamp.
This is a common case in legal contracts.
In such scenario, the document signer wants to reinforce the claim that the document existed on a specific date.
To achieve this, the document signer acquires a fresh TST for the document from a TSA, combines it with the document, and then signs the bundle.
Later on, a relying party consuming the signed bundle can be certain that the document existed _at least_ at the time specified by the TSA.
The relying party does not have to trust the signer's clock, which may have been maliciously altered or simply inaccurate.

This usage scenario motivates the "Timestamp then COSE" mode defined in {{sec-timestamp-then-cose}}.

A second use case is the notarization of a signed document by registering it at a Transparency Service.
This is common for accountability and auditability of issued documents.
Once a document is registered at a Transparency Service's append-only log, its log entry cannot be changed.
In certain cases, the registration policy of a Transparency Service may add a trustworthy timestamp to the signed document.

> This is done to enhance confidence in the authenticity of the document at the time of registration, enshrining that a signature was successfully validated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done to seal the signature to a specific point in time.
```

> This is done to enhance confidence in the authenticity of the document at the time of registration, enshrining that a signature was successfully validated.

Author: ```suggestion
This is done to seal the association of the signature with a specific point in time.
```

> To achieve this, the Transparency Service acquires a TST from a TSA when its registration policy is met, bundles it alongside the signed document, and then registers it.

Author: ```suggestion
To achieve this, the Transparency Service acquires a TST from a TSA, bundles it alongside the signed document, and then registers it.
```

> A relying party that wants to ascertain the authenticity of a document at a certain time does not have to trust the Transparency Service's clock, which may have been maliciously altered or can simply be inaccurate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A relying party that wants to ascertain the authenticity of a document at a subsequent point in time after the signing key has been compromised, can do so by making sure that no revocation information had been made public before the time asserted in the TST.
```

RFC 3161 {{-TSA}} provides a method to timestamp a message digest to prove that it was created before a given time.

This document defines a new CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE) {{-COSE}} header parameter that carries the TimestampToken (TST) output of RFC 3161, thus allowing existing and widely deployed trust infrastructure to be used with COSE structures used for signing (COSE_Sign and COSE_Sign1).

> To motivate the two different modes of use that are specified in this documents, two usage scenarios are illustrated in {{use-one}} and {{use-two}} below.

Reviewer: Suggest adding a NL here, they are two separate paragraphs.

> To motivate the two different modes of use that are specified in this documents, two usage scenarios are illustrated in {{use-one}} and {{use-two}} below.

Author: ```suggestion
To motivate the two different modes of use that are specified in this documents, two usage scenarios are illustrated in {{use-one}} and {{use-two}} below.

```

> {{sec-timestamp-then-cose}} and {{sec-cose-then-timestamp}} then define the corresponding modes of use.

Reviewer: I'd split this into two and add the respective bits to the last line of the use case sections.

> ## Usage Scenario 1: A TST Included in Signed PDF Documents {#use-one}

Reviewer: `ETITLETOOLONG` :-D

Reviewer: Sarcasm aside, I will propose text.

Author: :heart:

> In support of legal assurances, the quality of a signed PDF document can be improved by including a trustworthy signed timestamp.

Reviewer: _"quality"_ doesn't sound like the right word

> In essence, a PDF signer wants to strengthen the assertion that a PDF was not signed before a certain point in time ("the signature cannot be older than").

Reviewer: I find this a bit hard to digest.

You want to prove that _"a certain document existed at a certain date"_ in a way that can't be disputed by a relying party.

To achieve this goal, the PDF signer acquires a TST from a TSA, includes it in the to-be-signed PDF that becomes the COSE payload and then signs it.
Using only its local clock instead, a PDF signer would be able to tamper with its clock and thereby falsify the recentness of the signing procedure.

This usage scenario motivates the "Timestamp then COSE" mode below.

> ## Usage Scenario 2: Registering a Signed Statement at a Transparency Service {#use-two}

Reviewer: ditto

RFC 3161 {{-TSA}} provides a method to timestamp a message digest to prove that it was created before a given time.

This document defines a new CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE) {{-COSE}} header parameter that carries the TimestampToken (TST) output of RFC 3161, thus allowing existing and widely deployed trust infrastructure to be used with COSE structures used for signing (COSE_Sign and COSE_Sign1).
To motivate the two different modes of use that are specified in this documents, two usage scenarios are illustrated in {{use-one}} and {{use-two}} below.

{{sec-timestamp-then-cose}} and {{sec-cose-then-timestamp}} then define the corresponding modes of use.

> ## Usage Scenario 1: A TST Included in Signed PDF Documents {#use-one}

Author: ```suggestion
## Usage Scenario 1: A TST Included in Signed Documents {#use-one}
```

> In support of legal assurances, a signed PDF document can be augmented with a trustworthy timestamp.

Author: ```suggestion
In support of legal assurances, a signed document can be augmented with a trustworthy timestamp.
```

> In support of legal assurances, the quality of a signed PDF document can be improved by including a trustworthy signed timestamp.

Author: ```suggestion
In support of legal assurances, a signed PDF document can be augmented with a trustworthy signed timestamp.
```

In essence, a PDF signer wants to strengthen the assertion that a PDF was not signed before a certain point in time ("the signature cannot be older than").
To achieve this goal, the PDF signer acquires a TST from a TSA, includes it in the to-be-signed PDF that becomes the COSE payload and then signs it.

> Using only its local clock instead, a PDF signer would be able to tamper with its clock and thereby falsify the recentness of the signing procedure.

Author: ```suggestion
Using only its local clock instead, a document signer would be able to tamper with its clock and thereby falsify the recentness of the signing procedure.
```

This usage scenario motivates the "Timestamp then COSE" mode below.

## Usage Scenario 2: Registering a Signed Statement at a Transparency Service {#use-two}

Transparency services as described in {{-SCITT}} notarize COSE-signed statements by registering them in verifiable data structures that constitute append-only logs.
Once a signed statement is registered, it cannot be changed.
In some applications, the registration policy of a transparency service could enforce adding a timestamp to the unprotected header of the COSE-signed statement in order to strengthen the assurance at which point of time the registration occurred ("the registration cannot have happened before").
To achieve this goal, the transparency service acquires a TST from a TSA, includes it in the unprotected header of the COSE-signed statement and then registers it.
Using only its local clock instead, a transparency service would be able to tamper with its clock an thereby falsify the recentness of the registration procedure.

> This usage scenario motivates the "COSE then Timstamp" mode below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This usage scenario motivates the "COSE then Timestamp" mode below.
```

A second use case is the notarization of a signed document by registering it at a Transparency Service.
This is common for accountability and auditability of issued documents.

> Once a document is registered at a Transparency Service's append-only log, it's log entry cannot be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a document is registered at a Transparency Service's append-only log, its log entry cannot be changed.
```

> In certain cases, the registration policy of a Transparency Service may add a trustworthy timestamp to the document to show that the signature could also be validated at the time of registration.

Reviewer: removing the (redundant) bit that is already explained in L76

```suggestion
In certain cases, the registration policy of a Transparency Service may add a trustworthy timestamp to the signed document.
```
